The Git config command is used to set the values to identify who made changes to Git repositories:
 git config --global user.email "me@example.com"
 git config --global user.name "My name"
 git config -l : Shows info about the core and the user
git add        : Stages changes for commit.
git  add -p    : Shows you the changes to be staged (it will ask you if you want to stage them or not)
git branch     : Lists all branches of your repo
git branch -r  : Lists remote branches and can be combined with other branch arguments to manage remote branches.
git branch -d 'branch' : Deletes the existing branch(if it is fully merged)
git branch -D 'branch' : Deletes the existing branch even if it is not fully merged  
got clone      : It is used to create a copy of a remote repository into your local machine,including all of its files, commit history, and branches .
git commit --amend:It is used to make changes to your most recent commit and overwrite it .
git commit -m  : Commits staged changes with a specified message.
git commit -a -m: Stages any changes to tracked files and commit them in one step. 
git checkout  'files' : It undo the changes thare are not already staged (back to the state of the last staged file) 
git checkout  'branch': It is used to move to another existing branch
git checkout -b 'branch': It creates a ne branch then moves to it
git diff       : shows the changes made to tracked files that are not already staged
git diff --staged: Shows you the changes made to staged file(but not commited yet)
git fetch      :  It is a Git command used to retrieve the latest changes from a remote repository without merging them into your local branch.
git init       : Initializes a new Git repository.
git log:       : Displays a log of all local commit messages and related information since the repository's creation.
git log -p     : It shows all the commit info(shows the changes made with each commit)
git log --stat : It shows you the number of modifications(insetions&deletions) within each commit
git merge 'branch':joins changes from one branch into the existing branch you're working with .
git merge --abort :Can only be used after merge conflicts. This command will abort the merge and try to go back to the pre-merge state.
git mv         : It is similar to the Linux `mv` command. This command can move or rename a file, directory, or symlink.
git rm         : (~same as using rm then git add)
git pull       : Git pull is used to fetch the newest updates from a remote repository
git push       : Git push is used to push commits from your local repo to a remote repo
git show 'commit-id': shows you the changes made within a specific commit
git status:    : Shows the status of changes as untracked, modified, or staged.
git remote     : allows you to manage the set of repositories or “remotes” whose branches you track. 
git remote -v  : It is similar to $ git remote, but adding the -v shows more information such as the remote URL.
git remote show origin: Shows some information about a single remote repo.
git remote update: Fetches updates for remotes or remote groups.
git reset      :It is used to undo the staging of your files.(inverse of git add)
git revert HEAD:It makes a new commit which effectively rolls back the last commit.
git revert 'commit_id':makes a new commit which effectively rolls back the specified commit.
